---
title: "Resiliency-Oriented Operation of Distribution Networks under Unexpected Wildfires Using Multi-Horizon Information-Gap Decision Theory"

collection: publications

permalink: /publications/2023-izadi-1

excerpt: ''

date: 2023-01-01

venue: 'Applied Energy'

paperurl: 'http://shahabdehghan.github.io/files/2023-izadi-1.pdf'

citation: 'M. Izadi, S. H. Hosseinian, S. Dehghan, A. Fakharian, N. Amjady, &quot;Resiliency-Oriented Operation of Distribution Networks under Unexpected Wildfires Using Multi-Horizon Information-Gap Decision Theory,&quot; <i>Applied Energy</i>, accepted for publication, 2023.'

---

Extreme events may trigger cascading outages of different components in power systems and cause a substantial loss of load. Forest wildfires, as a common type of extreme events, may damage transmission/distribution lines across the forest and disconnect a large number of consumers from the electric network. Hence, this paper presents a robust scheduling model based on the notion of information-gap decision theory (IGDT) to enhance the resilience of a distribution network exposed to wildfires. Since the thermal rating of a transmission/distribution line is a function of its temperature and current, it is assumed that the tie-line connecting the distribution network to the main grid is equipped with a dynamic thermal rating (DTR) system aiming at accurately evaluating the impact of a wildfire on the ampacity of the tie-line. The proposed approach as a multi-horizon IGDT-based optimization problem finds a robust operation plan protected against the uncertainty of wind power, solar power, load, and ampacity of tie-lines under a specific uncertainty budget (UB). Since all uncertain parameters compete to maximize their robust regions under a specific uncertainty budget, the proposed multi-horizon IGDT-based model is solved by the augmented normalized normal constraint (ANNC) method as an effective multi-objective optimization approach. Moreover, a posteriori out-of-sample analysis is used to find (i) the best solution among the set of Pareto optimal solutions obtained from the ANNC method given a specific uncertainty budget, and (ii) the best resiliency level by varying the uncertainty budget and finding the optimal uncertainty budget. The proposed approach is tested on a 33-bus distribution network under different circumstances. The case study under different conditions verifies the effectiveness of the proposed operation planning model to enhance the resilience of a distribution network under a close wildfire.

[Download](http://shahabdehghan.github.io/files/2023-izadi-1.pdf)

Recommended citation: M. Izadi, S. H. Hosseinian, S. Dehghan, A. Fakharian, N. Amjady, &quot;Resiliency-Oriented Operation of Distribution Networks under Unexpected Wildfires Using Multi-Horizon Information-Gap Decision Theory,&quot; <i>Applied Energy</i>, accepted for publication, 2023. 
